Basic Terms and Conditions

1. Definitions

As used herein and throughout this Agreement:

1.1 Agreement means the entire content of this Basic Terms and
Conditions document, the Proposal document(s), Schedule A, together
with any other Supplements designated below, together with any
exhibits, schedules or attachments hereto.

1.2 Client Content means all materials, information, factual, promotional,
or other advertising claims, photography, writings and other creative
content provided or required by Client for use in the preparation of
and/or incorporation in the Deliverables.

1.3 Copyrights means the property rights in original works of authorship,
expressed in a tangible medium of expression, as defined and
enforceable under U.S. Copyright Law.

1.4 Deliverables means the services and work product specified in the
Proposal to be delivered by Designer to Client, in the form and media
specified in the Proposal.

1.5 Designer Tools means all design tools developed and/or utilized by
Designer in performing the Services, including without limitation
pre-existing and newly developed software including source code,
Web authoring tools, type fonts, and application tools, together with
any other software, or other inventions whether or not patentable,
and general non-copyrightable concepts such as Website design,
architecture, layout, navigational and functional elements.

1.6 Final Deliverables means the final versions of Deliverables provided by
Designer and accepted by Client.

1.7 Final Works means all creative content developed by Designer,
or commissioned by Designer, exclusively for the Project and
incorporated in the Final Deliverables, including, but not limited to,
any and all visual elements, graphic design, illustration, photography,
animation, motion design, audio-visual works, sounds, typographic
treatments and text, modifications to Client Content, and Designer’s
selection, arrangement and coordination of such elements together
with Client Content and/or Third Party Materials.

1.8 Preliminary Works means all creative content including, but not
limited to, concepts, sketches, visual presentations, or other alternate
or preliminary designs and documents developed by Designer and 
which may or may not be shown and or delivered to Client for consideration but
do not form part of the Final Works.

1.9 Project means the scope and purpose of the Client’s identified usage of the work
product as described in the Proposal.

1.10 Services means all services and the work product to be provided to Client by
Designer as described and otherwise further defined in the Proposal.

1.11 Third Party Materials means proprietary third party materials which are
incorporated into the Final Deliverables, including without limitation stock
photography or illustration.

1.12 Trademarks means trade names, words, symbols, designs, logos or other devices
or designs used in the Final Deliverables to designate the origin or source of the
goods or services of Client.

1.13 Working Files means all underlying work product and digital files utilized by
Designer to create the Preliminary Works and Final Works other than the format
comprising the Final Deliverables.

2. Proposal

The terms of the Proposal shall be effective for ( ) calendar days
after presentation to Client. In the event this Agreement is not executed by
Client within the time identified, the Proposal, together with any related
terms and conditions and deliverables, may be subject to amendment,
change or substitution.

3. Fees and Charges

3.1 Fees. In consideration of the Services to be performed by Designer, Client shall
pay to Designer fees in the amounts and according to the payment schedule set
forth in the Proposal, and all applicable sales, use or value added taxes, even if
calculated or assessed subsequent to the payment schedule.

3.2 Expenses. Client shall pay Designer’s expenses incurred in connection with this
Agreement as follows: (a) incidental and out-of-pocket expenses including but
not limited to costs for telephone calls, postage, shipping, overnight courier,
service bureaus, typesetting, blueprints, models, presentation materials,
photocopies, computer expenses, parking fees and tolls, and taxis at cost plus
Designer’s standard markup of percent ( %), and, if applicable,
a mileage reimbursement at per mile; and (b) travel expenses
including transportation, meals, and lodging, incurred by Designer with
Client’s prior approval.

3.3 Additional Costs. The Project pricing includes Designer’s fee only. Any and all
outside costs including, but not limited to, equipment rental, photographer’s
costs and fees, photography and/or artwork licenses, prototype production
costs, talent fees, music licenses and online access or hosting fees, will be billed
to Client unless specifically otherwise provided for in the Proposal.

3.4 Invoices/Payments. Client shall pay all invoices within ( ) calendar
days of the invoice date. A monthly service charge of 1.5 percent (or the greatest
amount allowed by state law) may be charged on all overdue balances. Payments
will be credited first to late payment charges and next to the unpaid balance.
Client shall be responsible for all collection or legal fees necessitated by lateness
or default in payment. Designer reserves the right to withhold Deliverables
if accounts are not current or overdue invoices are not paid in full. All grants
of any license to use or transfer of ownership of any intellectual property
rights under this Agreement are conditioned upon receipt of payment in full,
including any outstanding Additional Costs, Taxes, Expenses, Fees, Charges,
or the cost of Changes.

4. Changes

4.1 General Changes. Unless otherwise provided in the Proposal, and except as
otherwise provided for herein, Client shall pay additional charges for changes
requested by Client which are outside the scope of the Services on a time and
materials basis, at Designer’s standard hourly rate of per hour. Such
charges shall be in addition to all other amounts payable under the Proposal,
despite any maximum budget, contract price or final price identified therein.
Designer may extend or modify any delivery schedule or deadlines in the
Proposal and Deliverables as may be required by such Changes.

4.2 Substantive Changes. If Client requests or instructs Changes that amount to a
revision in or near excess of percent ( %) of the time required to produce
the Deliverables, and or the value or scope of the Services, Designer shall be
entitled to submit a new and separate Proposal to Client for written approval.
Work shall not begin on the revised services until a fully signed revised Proposal
and, if required, any additional retainer fees are received by Designer.

4.3 Timing. Designer will prioritize performance of the Services as may be
necessary or as identified in the Proposal, and will undertake commercially
reasonable efforts to perform the Services within the time(s) identified in the
Proposal. Client agrees to review Deliverables within the time identified for
such reviews and to promptly either (i) approve the Deliverables in writing or (ii)
provide written comments sufficient to identify Client’s concerns, objections or
corrections. Designer shall be entitled to request written clarification thereof.
Client acknowledges and agrees that Designer’s ability to meet schedules is
entirely dependent upon Client’s prompt performance of its obligations to
provide materials and written approvals and/or instructions pursuant to the 
Proposal and that any delays in Client’s performance or Changes in the Services
or Deliverables requested by Client may delay delivery of the Deliverables. Any
such delay caused by Client shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement
by Designer.

4.4 Testing and Acceptance. Designer will exercise commercially reasonable efforts
to test Deliverables requiring testing and to make all necessary corrections
prior to providing Deliverables to Client. Client, within five (5) business days
of receipt of each Deliverable, shall notify Designer, in writing, of any failure
of such Deliverable to comply with the specifications set forth in the Proposal,
or of any other objections, corrections, changes or amendments Client wishes
made to such Deliverable. Any such written notice shall be sufficient to identify
with clarity any objection, correction or change or amendment, and Designer
will undertake to make the same in a commercially timely manner. Any and all
objections, corrections, changes or amendments shall be subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement. In the absence of such notice from Client,
the Deliverable shall be deemed accepted.

4.5 Suspension Fee. Client acknowledges that Designer has reserved time
exclusively to perform the Services. Accordingly, in the event Client causes a
delay in the Services (“Client Delay”), Client shall pay to Designer, in addition
to fees and expenses already incurred through the date of such Client Delay, a
Suspension Fee equal to Designer’s hourly fees for idle time caused by the Client
Delay, unless Designer is able to secure other work for that time for the same or
greater compensation. Client acknowledges that if Designer accepts other work
because of a Client Delay, Designer may adjust time to complete the Services as
necessary to accommodate such other work.

5. Client Responsibilities

Client acknowledges that it shall be responsible for performing the following in
a reasonable and timely manner:

(a) coordination of any decision-making with parties other than the Designer;

(b) provision of Client Content in a form suitable for reproduction or
incorporation into the Deliverables without further preparation, unless
otherwise expressly provided in the Proposal;

(c) final proofreading and in the event that Client has approved Deliverables
but errors, such as, by way of example, not limitation, typographic errors or
misspellings, remain in the finished product, Client shall incur the cost of
correcting such errors ; and

(d) ensuring that all information and claims comprising Client Content are
accurate, legal and conform to applicable standards in Client’s industry.

6. Attribution/Promotions

Client agrees to include in all displays or publications of the Final Works
attribution and/or copyright notice in Designer’s name in the form, size and
location as incorporated by Designer in the Deliverables, or as otherwise
directed by Designer. Designer retains the right to reproduce, publish and
display the Final Works, Deliverables, and Preliminary Works, to the extent they
do not contain Client’s Confidential Information, in Designer’s portfolios and
Websites, and in galleries, design periodicals and other media or exhibits for the
purposes of recognition of creative excellence or professional advancement, and
to be credited with authorship of the Deliverables in connection with such uses.
Either party, subject to the other’s reasonable approval, may describe its role in
relation to the Project, and, if applicable, the services provided to the other party
on its Website and in other professional materials, and, if not expressly objected
to, include a link to the other party’s Website.

7. Confidential Information

Each party acknowledges that in connection with this Agreement it may receive
certain confidential or proprietary technical and business information and
materials of the other party (“Confidential Information”). Each party, its agents
and employees shall hold and maintain in strict confidence all Confidential
Information, shall not disclose Confidential Information to any third party,
and shall not use any Confidential Information except as may be necessary
to perform its obligations under the Project, except as may be required by a
court or government authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential
Information shall not include any information that is in the public domain or
becomes publicly known through no fault of the receiving party, or is otherwise
properly received from a third party without an obligation of confidentiality.

8. Relationship of the Parties

8.1 Independent Contractor. Designer is an independent contractor, not an
employee of Client or any company affiliated with Client. Designer shall provide
the Services under the general direction of Client, but Designer shall determine,
in Designer’s sole discretion, the manner and means by which the Services are
accomplished. This Agreement does not create a partnership or joint venture
and neither party is authorized to act as agent or bind the other party except
as expressly stated in this Agreement. All rights, if any, granted to Client are
contractual in nature and are wholly defined by the express written agreement
of the parties and the various terms and conditions of this Agreement.

8.2 Design Agents. Designer shall be permitted to engage and/or use third party
designers or other service providers as independent contractors in connection
with the Services (“Design Agents”). Designer shall remain fully responsible for
such Design Agents’ compliance with the various terms and conditions of this
Agreement.

8.3 No Solicitation. During the term of this Agreement, and for a period of six (6)
months after expiration or termination of this Agreement, Client agrees not to
solicit, recruit, engage or otherwise employ or retain, on a full-time, part-time,
consulting, work-for-hire or any other kind of basis, any employee or Design
Agent of Designer, whether or not said person has been assigned to perform
tasks under this Agreement. In the event such employment, consultation or
work-for-hire event occurs, Client agrees that Designer shall be entitled to an
agency commission to be the greater of either (a) 25 percent of said person’s
starting salary with Client, or (b) 25 percent of fees paid to said person if engaged
by Client as an independent contractor. In the event of (a) above, payment of the
commission will be due within 30 days of the employment starting date. In the
event of (b) above, payment will be due at the end of any month during which
the independent contractor performed services for Client. Designer, in the event
of nonpayment and in connection with this section, shall be entitled to seek all
remedies under law and equity.

8.4 No Exclusivity. The parties expressly acknowledge that this Agreement does
not create an exclusive relationship between the parties. Client is free to engage
others to perform services of the same or similar nature to those provided by
Designer, and Designer shall be entitled to offer and provide design services
to others, solicit other clients and otherwise advertise the services offered
by Designer.

9. Warranties and Representations

9.1 By Client. Client represents, warrants and covenants to Designer that (a) Client
owns all right, title, and interest in, or otherwise has full right and authority to
permit the use of the Client Content, (b) to the best of Client’s knowledge, the
Client Content is accurate, legal, conforms to ethical standards of the Client’s
industry, does not infringe the rights of any third party, and use of the Client
Content as well as any Trademarks in connection with the Project does not and
will not violate the rights of any third parties, (c) Client shall comply with the
terms and conditions of any licensing agreements which govern the use of Third
Party Materials, and (d) Client shall comply with all laws and regulations as they
relate to the Services and Deliverables.

9.2 By Designer.

(a) Designer hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Client that Designer
will provide the Services in a professional and workmanlike manner and in
accordance with all reasonable professional standards for such services.

(b) Designer further represents, warrants and covenants to Client that (i) except
for Third Party Materials and Client Content, the Final Deliverables shall be the
original work of Designer and/or Designer Agents, (ii) if the Final Deliverables
include the work of Designer Agents, Designer shall have secured agreements
from the Designer Agents granting all necessary rights, title and interest in and
to the Final Deliverables sufficient for Designer to grant the intellectual property 
rights provided in this Agreement, and (iii) to the best of Designer’s knowledge,
the Final Works (excluding Client Content and Third Party Materials), and
use of same in connection with the Project, will not violate the rights of any
third parties. Client acknowledges that Designer will not conduct any type of
intellectual property clearance search (e.g., copyright, trademark, utility patent
or design patent searches). If Client or any third party authorized by Client
modifies or uses the Deliverables outside the scope of rights granted in this
Agreement, or otherwise in violation of this Agreement, all representations and
warranties of Designer shall be void.

(c) Except for the express representations and warranties stated in this
Agreement, Designer makes no warranties whatsoever. Designer explicitly
disclaims any other warranties of any kind, either express or implied,
including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for
a particular purpose or compliance with laws or government rules or
regulations applicable to the Project.

10. Indemnification/Liability

10.1 By Client. Client agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless Designer from
any and all damages, liabilities, costs, losses or expenses arising out of any
claim, demand, or action by a third party arising out of any breach of Client’s
responsibilities or obligations, representations or warranties under this
Agreement. Under such circumstances Designer shall promptly notify Client
in writing of any claim or suit; (a) Client has sole control of the defense and
all related settlement negotiations; and (b) Designer provides Client with
commercially reasonable assistance, information and authority necessary
to perform Client’s obligations under this section. Client will reimburse the
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Designer in providing
such assistance.

10.2 By Designer. Designer agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless Client
from any and all damages, liabilities, costs, losses or expenses (collectively
“Liabilities”) arising out of any meritorious claim, demand, or action by a third
party which is inconsistent with Designer’s representations and warranties
made herein, except in the event any such Liabilities arise directly as a result
of Client’s gross negligence or misconduct, provided that (a) Client promptly
notifies Designer in writing of the claim; (b) Designer shall have sole control of
the defense and all related settlement negotiations; and (c) Client shall provide
Designer with the assistance, information and authority necessary to perform
Designer’s obligations under this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Designer shall have no obligation to defend or otherwise indemnify Client
for any claim arising out of or due to Client Content, Third Party Materials,
modifications of or content added to the Deliverables by Client or third parties,
improper or illegal use of Deliverables, use of Deliverables not authorized under
this Agreement, or the failure to update or maintain Deliverables. 

10.3 Settlement Approval. The indemnifying party may not enter into any settlement
agreement without the indemnified party’s written consent.

10.4 Limitation of Liability. The services and the work product of Designer are
provided “as is.” In all circumstances, the maximum liability of Designer,
its directors, officers, employees, design agents and affiliates, to Client
for damages for any and all causes whatsoever, and Client’s maximum
remedy, regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, tort or
otherwise, shall be limited to the total Project fee of Designer. In no event
shall Designer be liable for any lost data or content, lost profits, business
interruption or for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential,
exemplary or punitive damages arising out of or relating to the materials
or the services provided by Designer, even if Designer has been advised
of the possibility of such damages, and notwithstanding the failure of
essential purpose of any limited remedy.

11. Term and Termination

11.1 Term. This Agreement shall commence upon the Effective Date and shall
remain effective until the Services are completed and delivered, or otherwise
terminated as set forth herein.

11.2 Termination. This Agreement may be terminated for convenience at any time
by either party effective immediately upon notice, or the mutual agreement of
the parties, or for cause if any party:

(a) becomes insolvent, files a petition in bankruptcy, makes an assignment for
the benefit of its creditors; or

(b) breaches any of its material responsibilities or obligations under this
Agreement, which breach is not remedied within ten (10) days from receipt of
written notice of such breach.

11.3 In the event of termination, Designer shall be compensated for the Services
performed through the date of termination in the amount of (a) any advance
payment, (b) a prorated portion of the fees due, or (c) hourly fees for work
performed by Designer and/or Designer Agents as of the date of termination,
whichever is greater; and Client shall pay any outstanding Additional Costs,
Taxes, Expenses, Charges, and costs of Changes incurred through the date of
termination. In the event of termination for convenience by Client, Client shall
pay in addition to the above an early termination fee equal to 25% of the total
Project fee, Schedule A shall not be effective, and Client shall not have rights to
use the Deliverables except upon written consent from Designer provided after
such termination.

11.4 In the event of termination for convenience by Designer or for cause by Client,
and upon full payment of compensation as provided herein, Designer grants to
Client such right and title as provided for in Schedule A of this Agreement with
respect to those Deliverables provided to, and accepted by Client as of the date
of termination.

11.5 Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement: (a) each party shall return
or, at the disclosing party’s request, destroy the Confidential Information of the
other party, and (b) other than as provided herein, all rights and obligations of
each party under this Agreement, exclusive of the Services, shall survive.

11.6 Work Stoppage Option. If Designer has grounds to terminate this Agreement for
breach under Section 11.2(b), Designer may elect to suspend work until Client
cures the breach and agrees to amend the Proposal to adjust fees, including
Suspension Fees, and schedules as reasonably required by Designer.

12. General

12.1 Modification/Waiver. This Agreement may be modified by the parties only in
writing signed by both parties, except that Designer’s invoices may include, and
Client shall pay, Additional Costs, Expenses, Charges, and costs of Changes that
Client authorizes by email or a project management platform utilized for the
Project. Failure by either party to enforce any right or seek to remedy any breach
under this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of such rights nor shall
a waiver by either party of default in one or more instances be construed as
constituting a continuing waiver or as a waiver of any other breach.

12.2 Notices. All notices to be given hereunder shall be transmitted in writing via
a project management platform utilized for the Project, e-mail, or certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the addresses identified below,
unless notification of change of address is given in writing. Notice shall be
effective upon receipt or in the case of email, upon confirmation of receipt
(by automated confirmation or reply by the recipient).

12.3 No Assignment. Neither party may assign, whether in writing or orally, or
encumber its rights or obligations under this Agreement or permit the same
to be transferred, assigned or encumbered by operation of law or otherwise,
without the prior written consent of the other party, except that this Agreement
may be transferred or sold as part of a transfer or sale of the assigning party’s
entire business or portion thereof relating to the Project.

12.4 Force Majeure. Designer shall not be deemed in breach of this Agreement if
Designer is unable to complete the Services or any portion thereof by reason
of fire, earthquake, flood, hurricane or other severe weather, labor dispute,
act of war, terrorism, riot or other severe civil disturbance, death, illness or
incapacity of Designer or any local, state, federal, national or international law, 
governmental order or regulation or any other event beyond Designer’s control
(collectively, “Force Majeure Event”). Upon occurrence of any Force Majeure
Event, Designer shall give notice to Client of its inability to perform or of delay
in completing the Services and shall propose revisions to the schedule for
completion of the Services.

12.5 Governing Law and Dispute Resolution. The formation, construction,
performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be in accordance with
the laws of the United States and the state of without regard
to its conflict of law provisions or the conflict of law provisions of any other
jurisdiction. In the event of a dispute arising out of this Agreement, the parties
agree to attempt to resolve any dispute by negotiation between the parties. If
they are unable to resolve the dispute, either party may commence mediation
and/or binding arbitration through the American Arbitration Association,
or other forum mutually agreed to by the parties. The prevailing party in
any dispute resolved by binding arbitration or litigation shall be entitled to
recover its attorneys’ fees and costs. In all other circumstances, the parties
specifically consent to the local, state and federal courts located in the state
of . The parties hereby waive any jurisdictional or venue defenses
available to them and further consent to service of process by mail. Client
acknowledges that Designer will have no adequate remedy at law in the event
Client uses the Deliverables in any way not permitted hereunder, and hereby
agrees that Designer shall be entitled to equitable relief by way of temporary
and permanent injunction, and such other and further relief at law or equity as
any arbitrator or court of competent jurisdiction may deem just and proper, in
addition to any and all other remedies provided for herein.

12.6 Severability. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be
interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law,
but if any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, the
remainder of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect
and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a valid or
enforceable provision.

12.7 Interpretation. Section headings are solely for convenience and reference
only and shall not effect the scope, meaning, intent or interpretation of the
provisions of this Agreement nor otherwise be given any legal effect. Any design
terminology shall be defined according to standard design industry usage,
and any dispute as to the meaning or scope of design terminology shall be
determined by Designer in good faith. Any other ambiguities shall be resolved
with the most reasonable and legally valid construction, without regard to
authorship of such provisions.

12.8 Integration. This Agreement comprises the entire understanding
of the parties hereto on the subject matter herein contained, and supersedes
and merges all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings and
discussions between the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
In the event of a conflict between the Proposal and any other Agreement
documents, the terms of the Proposal shall control. This Agreement comprises
this Basic Terms and Conditions document, the Proposal, Schedule A, and the
following documents as indicated by the parties’ initials:

 Supplement 1: Print-Specific Terms and Conditions

 Supplement 2: Interactive-Specific Terms and Conditions

 Supplement 3: Environmental-Specific Terms and Conditions

 Supplement 4: Motion-Specific Terms and Conditions

By their execution below, the parties hereto have agreed to all of the terms
and conditions of this Agreement effective as of the last date of signature
below, and each signatory represents that it has the full authority to enter into
this Agreement and to bind her/his respective party to all of the terms and
conditions herein.

Designer:

[Designer name]

[Address]

E-mail:

Signed:

Date:

Client:

[Client name]

[Address]

E-mail:

Signed:

By:

[Client officer name]

Title:

Date: 